learning Chinese is remarkably poorly
suited to the modern Western system of
university education we could have a
debate about whether or not modern
Western universities do a great job of
teaching Latin we could have a debate
about whether or not they do a great job
of teaching ancient Greek or modern
languages like French Italian Spanish
that's debatable but there are
peer-reviewed studies there are
quantitative studies showing that after
four years in a bachelor's degree
students in the United States Canada
England if they've enrolled in intro to
Chinese if they start off as beginners
and spend those four years of their
lives and thousands of dollars the
modern Western system of education
absolutely fails to furnish them with
basic competence in spoken Chinese there
are other interesting debates that we
had about other educational models
they're used for Chinese I used to
somewhat naively assumed that the United
States Army did a good job of teaching
army boys how to speak Chinese because
you know it's life and death ultimately
while I was a student it keeps I had the
strange pleasure of meeting quite a few
graduates of US military courses a
Chinese and they admitted themselves
that they learned next to nothing in the
long years and long hours spent learning
Chinese from the US military system and
they reflected that their colleagues the
other guys who went through the same
program they also learned nothing and
those who did become fluent in Chinese
or Japanese or other difficult Asian
languages did so through extraordinary
means outside of the program so I had
some interesting conversations of us my
point being there are several different
models competing in the 21st century for
how to teach students languages like
Chinese and Chinese is if we're being
honest a lot more difficult to convey to
someone speaks English as their first
language
then Latin Greek Italian what-have-you
and to some extent the Western education
system it really was invented to teach
Latin above all staff the old fashioned
grammar school system of getting
students to read write and sing in Latin
and not very much thought has been given
as to what kind of changes would need to
be made even to teach modern European
languages let alone to over over
I'm the tremendous unique difficulties
and obstacles that Chinese insults so
when I was studying at a normal Western
University Canada University Victoria
most of the professor's just threw up
their hands and admitted the system was
crap they said the only way you're going
to learn Chinese is to buy an airplane
ticket to China and do something because
you're not going to learn Chinese
sitting in a classroom with 40 other
students where you maybe get to talk to
the professor one on one in Chinese for
five minutes a year in my course of
Victoria the only one-on-one speaking
exercise spoken exercise for Chinese was
the final oral exam otherwise the method
of teaching listening comprehension
which if you really think about it can
never work for Chinese their method of
teaching listening comprehension was to
play a CD an audio CD and then have the
students fill out a multiple-choice form
photocopy it's never going to work
what you really need are long hours
one-on-one with the teacher speaking
having the teacher hear you reply stop
you with errors you're making correct
you you need to build up the
moment-to-moment use of vocabulary and
grammar in Chinese and you need to start
from zero
you need to start from scratch it's a
tremendously challenging language and
again I just don't think that the
university system in Western countries
addresses those challenges in any way
whatsoever so I ended up spending I
think over 15,000 US dollars to study
Chinese living in the school that key of
Kunming key to the name of the school so
I live there I studied there I ate all
my meals there about five days a week
and that price tag I'm indicating 15
grand that wasn't just for the lessons
of time of the teacher it was for that
whole package a place to sleep
a couple meals a day etc etc it was for
an environment with very few
distractions and an environment that in
truth drove some of the other students
crazy I can say from experience that
staying in that environment was easier
than living in a Buddhist monastery
easier than living in most Buddhist
monastery and there were army guys there
as I mentioned as
the army guys could say that it was
easier than living in a bunker keeper
said easier than living in a dugout or
in a typical army base but no my life
there was not easy it was not enjoyable
I wasn't there as a tourist I wasn't
there to have a good time I think it is
worthwhile to point out is one negative
aspect of this review that Keats does
not live up to its own hype at all in
organizing social occasions for the
students when you first come in the door
Keats you come to the elevator they have
all these photographs on the wall of
them going out to do karaoke of them
going out to visit museums this kind of
thing and when I was there that never
happened once not once in seven months I
can't give you guys any credit the only
two field trips that happen during the
time I was there happened specifically
because I complained to them and I said
this is false advertising you have these
photos on the wall you made these
promises in the website even the
contract and I've at that point had been
there for five months or been there for
six months and this hasn't happened even
once so they finally did one a karaoke
night and again karaoke can be
significant for practicing you know
Chinese to speak in sing Chinese and it
finally did they attempted to do one
trip to one Museum but there are no
trips to the zoo the music they do not
do that they actually do let you down
that respect so you're pretty much all
alone in this bunker living in these
really strange circumstances eating
every day at the same buffet table with
whatever crazy weirdos happen to be it
religious school-- that they've got you
know maybe you'll have a great
experience that way maybe you won't but
if you're the kind of person who gets
lonely take your friends with you don't
go alone in a bowl as a pair you know
bring a friend or girlfriend or
boyfriend go as a group of friends a
group of students could all enroll at
once and make the most of it that way
because otherwise it's you and a pad of
paper and an internet connection
I appreciate the internet connection
it's your only window in the outside
world and otherwise you're waking up and
going to class in my case it was four
hours a day five days per week is Keats
perfect no but one of the most important
things I can praise them for is that
when there were serious imperfections in
the program
I reported the problem they addressed
the problem and it changed is every
teacher it keeps good no but when I had
a problem with the teacher
I took it to management and I got
reassigned to a new teacher or the
teacher was instructed to change what
they were doing they adapt it and things
moved on even on the wall the room you
stay in they have a poster up saying if
you have a problem come to management
talk to us we're going to change things
if there's something you want to change
with the content of what you're learning
take it up with management take it up
with your teacher we can change things
and that is sincere Keats is not perfect
but they adapt they recognize their
imperfections and they make changes and
that is a virtue that puts them in my
book many many levels above the kind of
toxic authoritarian environment ideal at
the University of Victoria the
University of Victoria if you report a
problem they would try to sweep it under
the rug do try to blame the students
they would have ridiculous complaints
processes involving the head of the
department and the Ombudsman and the
Dean nothing will get done ultimately
they would just say look we're trying to
make as much money as possible by giving
you a full education as possible
a damn thing in a change and yeah II
that even was true University of
Victoria trying to just address what
they were doing with the teaching
assistant how some of the minor things
were organized they could have really
easily made improvements and I and other
students pointed out shortcomings in
areas they can make room that would
wouldn't have cost them a dime but they
refused they would rather be right they
would rather feel like they were right
and continue to be wrong than actually
sell the phone so Keats is not like that
I did have problems with some of the
teachers and also just keep mind some of
the teachers just want to teach stuff I
wasn't going to study so I came there
I'm paying this premium to do one on one
one teacher one student so that means
you don't have an exam you don't have a
preset list of words to memorize you've
got to come there with the initiative
and the organisation and self-discipline
to say hey here's what I want to study
so another guy who got a lot of the
experience there was another guy there
who is something like an accountant in
the international finance system so you
know specialized accountant for
something like stock trading what
than interested but he came to that
school he knew exactly the vocabulary
wanted to study he knew exactly the kind
of conversations conversations he needed
to rehearse in Chinese exactly even the
kinds of written sentences he needed to
work on and then his teacher could
respond to that right so likewise I came
and said look I come out of a political
science background Asian Studies
background I'm interested in history
politics economics this is the kind of
vocabulary I care about and every day I
was doing a written composition this is
a one-page handwritten essay and that
would have in it this has a vocabulary
about politics and history and then we
would use that in the speaking and
listening practice in class I was using
my written class it my written work so
on and so forth and it naturally took
our curriculum in that direction in a
direction that was rewarding to me
intellectually and personally reflected
my interests and where I was motivated
to really work hard in the language I
had one teacher who by contrast wanted
me to do a bunch of lessons on driving a
car you know turn left at the red light
disco cab you Larry and I said look I've
never driven the car in my life I'm not
planning to get a driver's license this
is not part of my life anyway and this
is not what I'm paying for I'm not if
you're in a classroom with 50 people and
they're doing that lesson out of the
book you know Chinese vocabulary for
driving a car left turn right turn this
kind of thing then you're stuck you
can't really negotiate you can't claim
to override what the teachers decided is
the best route home for the class as a
whole but when it's one-on-one you make
the curriculum and you have to set down
the the path you want to take to the
teacher actively not passively
don't just resign yourself to doing
whatever the teacher wants to do you
have to come with that initiative with
that self discipline and be ready to
make the most of the educational
experience Oh Keith is a good school
keith is a great opportunity it cost
thousands of dollars but it saves you
time I think if you study Chinese in a
mainstream American University you will
also spend tens of thousands of dollars
and you will learn much much less in the
passenger for four years I'm filming
this with my weights in the background
you can see where I do benchpress back
there people asking for advice in
Chinese all the time people who need me
face to face on
how much how much language general to
cope with speaking listening etc
sometimes they see my handwriting and
they're impressed to the level of that
in terms of reading and writing Chinese
also and they say to me in effect what's
your secret how did you learn Chinese
what methods do you learn they ask that
kind of question but the truth is they
don't want to hear the answer when the
answer is it's a lot of hard work it's a
lot of long hours and it costs a lot of
money it's just like people asking for
advice on weight lifting weight loss
health or fitness they generally only
want an out answer that's going to be
something easy something cheap a
shortcut a secret there is no shortcut
there are no secrets but you've got to
take an analytical eye and look at all
the educational methods that are
available to you how you can make the
most of them what works what doesn't
work and when the system is broken and I
do genuinely think that the modern
Western University system is broken and
its approach to teaching Chinese then
you have to look at alternatives that
are outside the system I have very
little positive experience with
education my own high school is terrible
I've been to universities all over
Europe all over Canada and all over Asia
huge number of universities in Asia the
vast majorities institutions I regard is
terrible and the only advice I can give
you as a sort of warning talk about what
the shortcomings are what's benefit my
experience with the education at Keys is
uniquely positive it's a uniquely
positive educational experience in my
life although it has shortcomings we're
talking about institution that's willing
to recognize its own shortcomings and
adapt them as long as you bring the
initiative to make the most out of that
opportunity